Inkuire docs (#2125)
scala/docs.scala-lang: _overviews/scala3-scaladoc/inkuire.md

---
layout: multipage-overview

> title: Inkuire (Hoogle-like searches)

Reviewer: I suggest using a search-engine optimized title (and filename)
```suggestion
title: Type-based search
```

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/resources/images/scala3/scaladoc/inkuire-1.0.0-M2_js_flatMap.gif)

This feature is provided by the [Inkuire](https://github.com/VirtusLab/Inkuire) search engine, which works for Scala 3 and Kotlin. To be up-to-date with the development of this feature, follow the [Inkuire repository](https://github.com/VirtusLab/Inkuire).

## Example queries

Some examples of queries with intended results:
- `List[Int] => (Int => Long) => List[Long]` -> `map`
- `Seq[A] => (A => B) => Seq[B]` -> `map`
- `(A, B) => A` -> `_1`
- `Set[Long] => Long => Boolean` -> `contains`
- `Int => Long => Int` -> `const`
- `String => Int => Char` -> `apply`
- `(Int & Float) => (String | Double)` -> `toDouble`, `toString`
- `F[A] => Int` -> `length`

## Query syntax

In order for a scaladoc searchbar query to be searched using Inkuire instead of the default search engine, the query has to contain the `=>` character sequence. 

Accepted input is similar to a curried function signature in Scala 3. With some differences:
- AndTypes, OrTypes and Functions have to be enclosed in parentheses e.g. `(Int & Any) => String`

> - static fields and static functions that don't take parameters can be found by their type preceded with `=>` e.g. `=> Int`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- fields and parameterless methods can be found by preceding their type with `=>`, e.g., `=> Int`
```
